{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2822
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 # Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) Template\
\
**Title:**  \
[Name of the procedure]\
\
**SOP Number:**  \
[Unique ID if applicable]\
\
**Version:**  \
[Version number and date]\
\
**Prepared by:**  \
[Name, Office/Division]\
\
**Approved by:**  \
[Name, Title, and Date]\
\
**Effective Date:**  \
[MM/DD/YYYY]\
\
**Next Review Date:**  \
[MM/DD/YYYY]\
\
---\
\
## 1. Purpose\
\
Briefly state why this SOP exists. What process does it support? What problem does it address?\
\
**Example:**  \
The purpose of this SOP is to standardize the process for conducting Agile source selections within the agency's IT acquisition programs.\
\
---\
\
## 2. Scope\
\
Define the boundaries of the SOP: who it applies to, what offices or roles are involved, and what it covers (and doesn't cover).\
\
**Example:**  \
This SOP applies to all Contracting Officers, CORs, and Technical Evaluation Teams involved in software development contracts using Agile delivery methods.\
\
---\
\
## 3. References\
\
List relevant regulations, policies, templates, or other SOPs this procedure depends on.\
\
**Example:**\
\
- FAR Part 15.3 \'96 Source Selection  \
- TechFAR Handbook  \
- Agency Agile Acquisition Playbook  \
- QASP Template v2.1  \
\
---\
\
## 4. Definitions\
\
Clarify terms and acronyms used in the SOP.\
\
| Term | Definition                            |\
|------|----------------------------------------|\
| CO   | Contracting Officer                   |\
| COR  | Contracting Officer's Representative  |\
| MVP  | Minimum Viable Product                |\
\
---\
\
## 5. Roles and Responsibilities\
\
List each involved role and their responsibilities in executing the SOP.\
\
**Example:**\
\
- **Contracting Officer (CO):** Leads the solicitation and award process.  \
- **Product Owner (PO):** Defines the product vision and prioritizes requirements.  \
- **Evaluation Team Lead:** Facilitates evaluation sessions and coordinates scoring.  \
\
---\
\
## 6. Procedure\
\
Break down the steps clearly and sequentially. Use sub-steps or bullet points where helpful.\
\
**Example:**\
\
**Step 1: Develop Product Vision**  \
- Product Owner drafts the vision aligned to the mission.  \
- COR and CO review for clarity and acquisition feasibility.  \
\
**Step 2: Draft the SOO**  \
- Use the approved agency SOO template.  \
- Include outcome-based objectives.  \
- Route through legal if required.  \
\
**Step 3: Conduct Market Research**  \
- Issue RFI and assess market capability.  \
- Document findings in the Acquisition Plan.  \
\
**Step 4: Evaluate Vendors**  \
- Phase 1: Technical challenge  \
- Phase 2: Oral presentations and pricing  \
- Use Confidence Ratings per SSP  \
\
---\
\
## 7. Quality Control / Performance Measures\
\
Describe how the process is monitored or audited. What metrics or feedback loops are used?\
\
**Example:**\
\
- Post-award review checklist completed by COR.  \
- Annual process audit conducted by Procurement Policy Office.  \
- Vendor feedback form reviewed quarterly.  \
\
---\
\
## 8. Records and Documentation\
\
Specify what records must be kept and where. Include system names if applicable.\
\
**Example:**\
\
- All evaluation documentation retained in the agency's eProcurement system (e.g., PRISM).  \
- Final contract artifacts stored in contract file in SharePoint.  \
\
---\
\
## 9. Revision History\
\
| Version | Date       | Description      | Author              |\
|---------|------------|------------------|---------------------|\
| 1.0     | 12/06/2025 | Initial release  | Acquisition Policy Lead |\
\
}